During where we are, by the Bardo of the Birthday Living, there is an additional experience that we
go through.
This is called dreaming, and that is dreaming is one of the major part of our life's experience, or
the period that we go on.
This is many times in the book, and Tibetan teaching opened, and you say that half of our life we
sleep.
In ancient times, it must be true, because there is not too much electricity, and there is no night
, and this old night is not too young.
And in the morning, maybe there will be, there is sleep, when the darkness comes, so maybe there is
not too much.
But now, modern time, in the American or modern time, where there is electricity, then I think we
still are left.
But however still it is, very major part of our life that we spend as a sleep.
And the sleeping is, of course, important for the board.
In the medicine teaching, Open said it sustains the body, it is nourishing the body.
The next day, it is rejuvenating the body.
It is like sleeping, food, and then other exercise, and then as well as meditation, all those, also
one way of living, happen to the animals.
And the amount of that, sleeping is very important for the individuals, particularly those who are
connected with the five elements,
or with the gross level, or the desire of the teachers.
Guards don't have to sleep with the teachers.
Miraculous or born, usually they don't need to sleep. They don't have to sleep.
And the level, they don't really need to spend their sleep.
But therefore, even the God's name, one of the names in the Buddha teaching said it, namsi, means
always wake up, always they wake up.
Right, they don't want to go to bed.
But desire them, in particular the human realm, we have to sleep.
This is part of the sustaining, restarting our body.
And so, when we sleep, most of the time we sleep, sleep.
And that's why the teaching said here, say, we sleep with the dullness.
We sleep with it in one way, dullness is ignorance. So we sleep.
So that means, of course, it happens to the body to sustain that, but there is no really progress
to our awareness, our realizations.
Anything. It's just we sleep.
So now, for example, even we don't sleep in modern time, as we used to in ancient time, and we have
100-year lifespans.
At least we spent 30 years, solid 30 years, or 35 years to sleep.
35 years is literacy.
And now, these accordingly vary on our teaching. Then in the school, it means teaching.
Teaching, we use that time, not just only to have been good for the body, but also for our
realization, for our awareness.
Our moral realization. That's for that reason that dream yoga is one of the very important, or
dream practice, is one of the very important teachings in the very early teachings.
And again, to do these dream yoga practices, or the dream teaching practices, this is, again, we
have to start with our mind, with our motivations.
First, what is dream?
Dream is, of course, everyone. We all know that. That is, I think, obvious.
Because dream is a dream, or dream is illusion.
That's that everybody knows that. But that is what we do.
This dream, again, to make dream yoga as a kind of dream practices, we have to start, not where we
are sleeping.
We have to start where we are waking up.
This is, that is, we have to start.
This, in order to do that, we have to see these four things, what we see.
Subject, object, everything is a dream.
Everything, even during the daytime, it is a dream.
Because dream, what we call, it's a dream, is illusion.
This is illusion. This day life, day phenomena, is illusion.
And look, yesterday, day before yesterday, last month,
month before last month, all those experiences,
all those, our kind of environment, our visions, our scenery, almost gone.
Gone. What's the difference between those during the daytime experience, last night, our dreams?
What is the difference?
We look careful. In Buddha teaching, teaching on Gurbel Masamma said, "Those all perseve as dreams
."
This is not just, we have to think, Buddha said, Gurbel Masamma said, books said,
"Are you really, with your thing? What is really difference?"
Then we can go back to the last years, year before last years.
In our sense, we had memories. Until now, all our memories,
all our, that environment, each time those looks like so solid.
Each time when we experience, same way as we are doing now, those are so solid,
so real, so true, so unchanging, so strong like that.
But all gone, one after another, as like ripples.
Ripples come, each time when we see ripples, where that first ripple went?
It just disappeared.
Similarly, our experience that we went through is all like ripples.
Ripples came and ripples gone, and we are here now.
We are now in one of the ripples' status, and we are moving forward that way.
Today our experience, again, I think all of these things,
are also the same thing, that ripple, more, is coming to change.
That's why time changes. We continue to move forward.
Forward, in all, is just only in the memories.
Memories, last night our dreams, we had some dreams.
It's also in the memories.
Our last years experience all that in the memories.
That's why Buddha said so many times in the teaching,
when we throw out, everything is a dream.
All is really that dream.
So this is, right now, we are dreaming.
This is another dream, that we are dreaming.
Not just we are dreaming, we are watching that we are dreaming.
We are dreaming, but our self is a dream.
Our own self is a dream.
We are the dream. I am the dream, and I am the dream.
So that means subject is a dream, object is a dream,
and action is a dream. All is a dream.
Truly this is what it is.
Then not just only in the memories that we are thinking,
but also the kind of philosophical thinking is all illusion, relative truth.
That's what teaching said.
There is nothing substantial, solid, existing.
All is that bubble. I think those are not what we call here.
Strength use, strength use, strength use.
And that's another modern terminology.
I think we need strength use.
What strength use means? Do you think strength use?
You know better than me, strength use.
That means illusion, I think, is nothing really solid, solid, existing.
So then, according to that, all is going to the black holes.
All is going to the black holes.
And black hole is unseen states.
It's like dreaming, that human is in states.
So what is really real?
Here, as we grasping like to hell,
there's nothing is substantially solid, existing.
From down upon the moon, and more than those genuine scientists' lives.
Everything is illusion.
This is what this dream is.
But, even though reality is like that,
about the way what you are in mind thinks.
This is so solid, so strong, so genuine.